README.md, before:

# Air Quality Prediction Visualization Trust Study

An interactive web experiment studying how different uncertainty visualization formats affect user trust in decision-making using air quality prediction data.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the server:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

3. **Open in browser:**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:8080` to run the experiment

## Study Overview

- **8 experimental conditions** (between-subjects design)
- **Two-phase study**: Text-based prediction → Visualization-based prediction  
- **Measurements**: Visualization literacy, probability estimation, confidence, trust
- **Data**: Synthetic air quality predictions for City A vs City B

## Testing Different Conditions

To test different visualization conditions, edit `index.html` line 13:

```javascript
const ASSIGNED_CONDITION = 1;  // Change to 1-8 to test different conditions
```

### Available Conditions:
1. **Baseline** - Aggregated prediction lines only
2. **PI Plot** - Confidence bounds with shaded areas  
3. **Ensemble Plot** - Multiple prediction lines shown
4. **Ensemble + Hover** - Hover reveals alternative predictions
5. **PI Plot + Hover** - Hover reveals individual predictions
6. **PI → Ensemble** - Transform between representations on hover
7. **Buggy Control** - Broken interactions (placeholder)
8. **Bad Control** - Poor interactions (placeholder)

## File Structure

```
src/
├── experiment.js              # Main experiment timeline
├── config.js                  # 8-condition configuration  
├── plugins/                   # Custom jsPsych plugins
│   ├── jspsych-vis-literacy.js       # Visualization literacy test
│   ├── jspsych-prediction-task.js    # Air quality prediction task
│   ├── jspsych-trust-survey.js       # Trust measurement scales
│   └── jspsych-broken-interactions.js # Control conditions (placeholder)
├── utils/                     # Utility modules
│   ├── visualizationRenderer.js      # D3.js visualization management
│   ├── conditionManager.js           # Condition metadata handling
│   ├── interactionController.js      # Hover/click interaction logic  
│   └── dataCollector.js              # Comprehensive data logging
├── data/                      
│   └── airQualityData.js             # Synthetic air quality data
└── styles/                    
    ├── experiment.css                # Main styling
    └── air-quality-theme.css         # Condition-specific styling
```

## Technologies

- **jsPsych 7.3.4** - Psychology experiment framework
- **D3.js 7.9.0** - Interactive data visualizations
- **Vanilla JavaScript** - No build process required
- **CSS3** - Responsive design with condition-specific styling

## Data Export

The experiment automatically exports:
- **CSV format**: Summary data for statistical analysis
- **JSON format**: Complete interaction logs and metadata

## Development

- **No build process** required - edit files directly
- **Local server** via Python HTTP server
- **Debug mode** available via browser console
- **Condition testing** via assignment flag in index.html

## Production Deployment

For production use:
1. Set `ASSIGNED_CONDITION = null` in `index.html` for random assignment
2. Deploy static files to any web server
3. No server-side dependencies required

## Research Features

- **Between-subjects design** - Each participant sees one condition
- **Two-phase comparison** - Before/after visualization exposure
- **Comprehensive logging** - All interactions and timing data captured
- **Visualization literacy assessment** - Pre-experiment screening
- **Validated trust scales** - Standard psychological instruments

## Browser Compatibility

- Modern browsers with ES6+ support
- Responsive design for desktop and mobile
- Accessibility features included

---

For questions or issues, refer to the comprehensive documentation in `CLAUDE.md`.

Commit message:

Add historical-only and combined PI+ensemble conditions
Introduces Condition 0 (historical data only) and Condition 9 (combined PI and ensemble) to the experiment, updates grid layout and styles in conditions.html, and refactors code to support 10 conditions. Removes console logging from display modules for cleaner output. Updates documentation to clarify server options and data export mechanisms.

README.md, after:

# Air Quality Prediction Visualization Trust Study

An interactive web experiment studying how different uncertainty visualization formats affect user trust in decision-making using air quality prediction data.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the server with PHP data saving:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   # or
   ./start_server.sh
   ```

3. **Open in browser:**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:8000` to run the experiment
   
   **Alternative Python server (no data saving):**
   ```bash
   npm run start-python  # Runs on localhost:8080
   ```

## Study Overview

- **8 experimental conditions** (between-subjects design)
- **Two-phase study**: Text-based prediction → Visualization-based prediction  
- **Measurements**: Visualization literacy, probability estimation, confidence, trust
- **Data**: Synthetic air quality predictions for City A vs City B

## Testing Different Conditions

To test different visualization conditions, edit `index.html` line 13:

```javascript
const ASSIGNED_CONDITION = 1;  // Change to 1-8 to test different conditions
```

### Available Conditions:
1. **Baseline** - Aggregated prediction lines only
2. **PI Plot** - Confidence bounds with shaded areas  
3. **Ensemble Plot** - Multiple prediction lines shown
4. **Ensemble + Hover** - Hover reveals alternative predictions
5. **PI Plot + Hover** - Hover reveals individual predictions
6. **PI → Ensemble** - Transform between representations on hover
7. **Buggy Control** - Broken interactions (placeholder)
8. **Bad Control** - Poor interactions (placeholder)

## File Structure

```
src/
├── experiment.js              # Main experiment timeline
├── config.js                  # 8-condition configuration  
├── plugins/                   # Custom jsPsych plugins
│   ├── jspsych-vis-literacy.js       # Visualization literacy test
│   ├── jspsych-prediction-task.js    # Air quality prediction task
│   ├── jspsych-trust-survey.js       # Trust measurement scales
│   └── jspsych-broken-interactions.js # Control conditions (placeholder)
├── utils/                     # Utility modules
│   ├── visualizationRenderer.js      # D3.js visualization management
│   ├── conditionManager.js           # Condition metadata handling
│   ├── interactionController.js      # Hover/click interaction logic  
│   └── dataCollector.js              # Comprehensive data logging
├── data/                      
│   └── airQualityData.js             # Synthetic air quality data
└── styles/                    
    ├── experiment.css                # Main styling
    └── air-quality-theme.css         # Condition-specific styling
```

## Technologies

- **jsPsych 7.3.4** - Psychology experiment framework
- **D3.js 7.9.0** - Interactive data visualizations
- **Vanilla JavaScript** - No build process required
- **CSS3** - Responsive design with condition-specific styling

## Data Export

### With PHP Server (Recommended)
- **Automatic CSV saving**: Data saved to `data/` folder as `user_[ID]_[timestamp].csv`
- **Server-side storage**: Participant data securely stored on server
- **Fallback mechanism**: Uses localStorage if server unavailable

### With Python Server (Development)
- **localStorage only**: Data saved in browser storage
- **Manual download**: Participants download their own data files
- **JSON format**: Complete interaction logs and metadata

## Development

- **No build process** required - edit files directly
- **Local server** via Python HTTP server
- **Debug mode** available via browser console
- **Condition testing** via assignment flag in index.html

## Production Deployment

For production use:
1. Set `ASSIGNED_CONDITION = null` in `index.html` for random assignment
2. Deploy static files to any web server
3. No server-side dependencies required

## Research Features

- **Between-subjects design** - Each participant sees one condition
- **Two-phase comparison** - Before/after visualization exposure
- **Comprehensive logging** - All interactions and timing data captured
- **Visualization literacy assessment** - Pre-experiment screening
- **Validated trust scales** - Standard psychological instruments

## Browser Compatibility

- Modern browsers with ES6+ support
- Responsive design for desktop and mobile
- Accessibility features included

---

For questions or issues, refer to the comprehensive documentation in `CLAUDE.md`.
